README.md, before:

# Didaktik 40

The Didaktik 40 is a retro-style keyboard taking its inspiration form the czech homecomputer, the [didaktik gama](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Didaktik#Didaktik_Gama). While offering its original layout, it also supports more modern split and single spacebar bottomrow configurations as well as two rotary encoders.
The case is being designed by gizzle13. It is a 2 degree, 2 piece case with top mounting for either simple or burger topmounting. It uses an old-school unified daughterboard for the usb port. The case and pcb furthermore support 2 leds, just like on the original case, and another hole to access the reset button.

## Layout

![](https://github.com/calvin-mcd/Didaktik-40/blob/main/Images/KLE.png)

[Link](http://www.keyboard-layout-editor.com/#/gists/80f2dfd555ef09043852ad12f22f6b8f)

![](https://github.com/calvin-mcd/Didaktik-40/blob/main/Images/20230210_113844.jpg)

## Firmware

The basic firmware is set up to use the leds as layer indicators. Top for layer 1, bottom for layer 2, both for layer 3. There is hardware support for a speaker and for rgb strip but this is not enabled by default due to firmware size. Also note that the audio and rgb haven't been fully tested yet.

## Case

The case is wip and is being designed by gizzle13. If you ever need a 3d printed case and are based in the EU, do check out gizzle's work.

![](https://github.com/calvin-mcd/Didaktik-40/blob/main/Images/case_wip1.png)
![](https://github.com/calvin-mcd/Didaktik-40/blob/main/Images/case_wip2.png)
![](https://github.com/calvin-mcd/Didaktik-40/blob/main/Images/case_wip4.png)

## Todo

- [X] order & test pcb
- [X] create firmware
- [ ] create & test case

## Disclaimer

Please note that this project is a work in progress with no guarantees of a working outcome. No-one involved in this project is responsible for any usage issues that may arise. However, feel free to edit, modify and otherwise utilise these files.

## License

This project is released under the GPL v3 License. Please refer to the LICENCE file.

## Credits

big thanks to gizzle13 for making this project possible. The whole idea really lives and thrives with the case!

As always big thanks also to the many people who inspired and helped with this board!

Any questions, contact Calvin0563 on Discord.

Commit message:

publish rep, update readme with fresh pictures

README.md, after:

# Didaktik 40

The Didaktik 40 is a retro-style keyboard taking its inspiration form the czech homecomputer, the [didaktik gama](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Didaktik#Didaktik_Gama). While offering its original layout, it also supports more modern split and single spacebar bottomrow configurations as well as two rotary encoders.
The case is being designed by gizzle13. It is a 2 degree, 2 piece case with top mounting for either simple or burger topmounting. It uses an old-school unified daughterboard for the usb port. The case and pcb furthermore support 2 leds, just like on the original case, and another hole to access the reset button.

![](https://github.com/calvin-mcd/Didaktik-40/blob/main/Images/case_top.jpg)
![](https://github.com/calvin-mcd/Didaktik-40/blob/main/Images/20230210_113844.jpg)

## Layout

![](https://github.com/calvin-mcd/Didaktik-40/blob/main/Images/KLE.png)

[Link](http://www.keyboard-layout-editor.com/#/gists/80f2dfd555ef09043852ad12f22f6b8f)

## Firmware

The basic firmware is set up to use the leds as layer indicators. Top for layer 1, bottom for layer 2, both for layer 3. There is hardware support for a speaker and for rgb strip but this is not enabled by default due to firmware size. Also note that the audio and rgb haven't been fully tested yet.

## Case

The case is designed by gizzle13 and you can get it printed directly with them. Case files will be released on printables soon.

![](https://github.com/calvin-mcd/Didaktik-40/blob/main/Images/case_top2.jpg)
![](https://github.com/calvin-mcd/Didaktik-40/blob/main/Images/case_side.jpg)

## Todo

- [X] order & test pcb
- [X] create firmware
- [X] create & test case

## Disclaimer

Please note that this project is a work in progress with no guarantees of a working outcome. No-one involved in this project is responsible for any usage issues that may arise. However, feel free to edit, modify and otherwise utilise these files.

## License

This project is released under the GPL v3 License. Please refer to the LICENCE file.

## Credits

big thanks to gizzle13 for making this project possible. The whole idea really lives and thrives with the case!

As always big thanks also to the many people who inspired and helped with this board!

Any questions, contact Calvin0563 on Discord.
